[Music]
hello good morning welcome to breakfast
with roger johnson
our headlines today six million more
people in england
are now under the toughest coveted
restrictions as much of the south and
east enters tier iv all of mainland
scotland is put under
its tightest rules and northern ireland
starts a six-week lockdown
in other news more than a thousand
people are told to leave their homes in
bedfordshire
as a third severe flood warning is
issued overnight
arsenal are hoping to unwrap a rare
thing on boxing day a
premier league win they haven't had one
in nearly two months but manager michael
arteta
says they could be heading for a
relegation battle
championing change why lewis hamilton is
backing the eco-friendly competition
that drives motorsport into new terrain
good morning storm bella is starting to
bear down across the uk
we still have severe flood warnings out
as a result of recent rain numerous
other flood warnings
and an amber warning for those
potentially damaging winds
later today i'll have more detail for
you
in around quarter of an hour
[Music]
good morning it's saturday december 26
boxing day belated happy christmas from
me our top story today
six million more people in the south and
east of england are now living under the
toughest level of coronavirus
restrictions tier four
which means that they must stay at home
unless it's for work or education
gyms hair salons and all non-essential
shops are also closed
as emily eunier reports a return to
lockdown
with more shops pubs and restaurants
across the uk
forced to close to try and slow rapidly
rising infection rates thought to be
caused by a new strain of coronavirus
the government done the right thing the
variant and the
and the chronovirus is out of control so
they had to do something
i was expecting it at the end of the day
with the
the numbers going up and i have
everyone has to live through this so if
it's going to keep us safe in the end
that's really good and i'm quite happy
the tougher measures could be enforced
for months
but we mustn't give up now we know
that we can control this virus we know
we can get through this together
we're going to get through it by
suppressing the virus until a vaccine
can make us safe
that's been our strategy and that's what
we must do
new tier 4 restrictions were imposed on
london and parts of essex and
hertfordshire
at midnight on sunday this morning most
of southern and eastern england are
joining them the rules are similar to
the last lockdown in england
you must stay at home unless you need to
travel for work or education
you may only meet one person at a time
outdoors
non-essential shops should shut and
unless you have a genuine reason like
caring for someone or going to work or
school
you mustn't leave a tier 4 area
other parts of england are also moving
into higher tiers with only the isles of
scilly now left in the lowest tier one
in northern ireland a new six-week
national lockdown has begun
with an 8pm to 6 a.m curfew in operation
until january the 2nd
all of mainland scotland has moved into
its toughest level of restrictions
and after a brief relaxation of rules
for christmas day
wales has returned to a full national
lockdown which began on sunday
emily junior bbc news a new lockdown in
northern ireland has begun today as
coronavirus cases remain
high the first week of the measures are
the toughest yet
with supermarkets ordered to close at
eight o'clock in the evening
and an overnight ban on all indoor and
outdoor gatherings
non-essential shops must remain closed
for six weeks
and hospitality venues will be limited
to takeaway services
hundreds of families in bedfordshire
have been urged to leave their homes
after flood waters rose to potentially
dangerous levels over christmas
tier iv coveted restrictions will be
relaxed for any residents who need to
evacuate their properties
so they can stay overnight with friends
or relatives two emergency centers have
also been
opened in the county
mps have begun examining a summary of
the post-brexit
trade deal between the uk and the
european union the document contains
more than 1200 pages and the argument
will be put to an emergency vote in
parliament
on wednesday our political correspondent
leila nathu has the story
in brussels yesterday a christmas day
briefing for eu ambassadors on the deal
by the man who led the negotiations for
their side
mission accomplished what's in that blue
folder sets out how the eu and uk will
trade and cooperate from january
a success for both sides to have more
than 1200 pages of text
setting out a new relationship
writing in the times this morning the
cabinet office minister michael gove
says the deal will allow the uk and eu
to enjoy a special relationship as
sovereign equals
he was one of the key figures in the
leave campaign he writes that the debate
over brexit was at times ugly
and he hopes the agreement will allow
british politics to move into a better
place
the deal was done in the nick of time
with the uk already out of the eu
and transition arrangements expiring
within days
mps and peers will have until wednesday
to digest the detail
before being called back to parliament
for a debate and vote
the eu is now weighing up how the future
looks with the uk
outside member states will be reviewing
the legal text in the coming days
before what's on paper becomes a reality
leila nathu bbc news
parts of the u.s city of nashville
remained cordoned off after a campervan
exploded in the early hours of christmas
day
three people were injured and widespread
damage was caused when the van
which had been broadcasting a warning
that a blast was imminent
blew up in the city center police
believe it was a deliberate act
thousands of shops across the uk won't
be opening for the traditional boxing
day sales because
of the lockdowns in wales and northern
ireland and tough new restrictions in
england and scotland
it follows a difficult year for the
retail industry which is calling for
more
government support vivienne nunes
reports
end of year sales have been attracting
crowds for decades
they're here again the sales and the
queues you can't afford to miss a good
bargain these days
some all-night queuers receive a welcome
surprise an early morning cuppa to warm
them up for the battle ahead
but in 2020 with tier 4 restrictions in
england
restrictions in scotland and lockdown
northern ireland and wales
many of the uk's high street stores will
be empty today
leaving scores of boxing day bargain
hunters forced
to shop online for many retailers the
key christmas trading period has been
severely disrupted footfall for december
is down by 45 compared with 2019.
the retail industry body is calling for
government support
to continue beyond next april we've seen
some administrations some job losses
some store closures
to making sure that that support is
targeted to those businesses
as we move into 2021
um is going to be really it's going to
be really vital to to
you know to ensure that we don't see
more job losses and
more sore closures stores in manchester
and birmingham will be among those to
open today
some with a cap on customer numbers and
digital queuing systems in place
for those looking to find a good deal
the biggest discounts are expected to be
in fashion
as retailers look to offload excess
stock
but after a year of rolling sales from
many of the big stores
retail analysts say some shoppers may be
experiencing
sale fatigue more bad news for an
industry
that's endured a year like no other
vivienne nunes bbc news
it's eight minutes past six good morning
if you've just joined us welcome to
breakfast on this boxing day morning
let's have a look at the front pages of
some of the boxing day newspapers
the mirror looking back on the queen's
speech yesterday and
her majesty's message of national unity
as a result
of the pandemic the headline is a quote
from her speech
it's brought us closer i am proud of
your spirit
she said the times leads on an opinion
piece by the cabinet secretary michael
gove who says that this week's brexit
deal
will allow the uk and the european union
to form a new special relationship
the picture shows some racehorses on
their way to newbury and berkshire
heading out onto the gallups
yesterday morning the guardians lead
story says that british scientists are
now working on a new treatment that
could prevent someone who has been
exposed to coronavirus
from going on to develop the disease
and one of the most read stories on the
bbc news website this morning is that
france has found
its first case of the new coronavirus
variant
which was previously identified in the
uk the person who's tested positive
is self-isolating and according to the
report
is said to be doing well and not feeling
too ill
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc
dot co dot uk forward slash news follow
the story for all the latest with bbc
news